PURPOSE OF THE JOB
As Backend Engineer, you will work on one of the world's largest social media platforms which deals with a few petabytes of data coming to the system daily. You will chip in as part of R&D self-organized team working in a complicated, innovative environment for our client.
Investigate, create, and implement the solutions for many technical challenges using groundbreaking technologies, including building/enhancing data processing platform enabling work of software used by hundreds of millions of users.
MAIN TASKS AND RESPONSIBILITIES

    Obtains tasks from the project lead or Team Lead (TL), prepares functional and design specifications, approves them with all collaborators.
    Ensures that assigned area/areas are delivered within set deadlines and required quality objectives.
    Provides estimations, agrees task duration with the manager and gives to project plan of assigned area.
    Evaluating existing data systems.
    Developing standard processes for data coding to ensure consistency within the system.
    Updating and optimizing local and metadata models.
    Evaluating implemented data systems for variances, discrepancies, and efficiency.
    Solving and optimizing data systems.
    Understand the business drivers and analytical use-cases and translate these to data products
    Design, implement and maintain pipelines that produce business critical data successfully and efficiently using cloud technology
    Addresses area-level risks, provides and implements mitigation plan.
    Reports about area readiness/quality, and raise red flags in crisis situations which are beyond their AOR.
    Responsible for resolving crisis situations within their AOR.
    Initiates and conducts code reviews, creates code standards, conventions, and guidelines.
    Suggests technical and functional improvements to make valuable contributions to the product.
    Constantly improves their professional level.
    Collaborates with other teams.

REQUIRED EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE
Must have:

    University degree in Computer Related Sciences or similar
    5+ years of experience as full stack engineer.
    Solid Java coding skill
    Experience with Cache and Infra services development is must.
    Experience with JS & HTML
    Ability to organize and document solutions.
    A passon for streamlining systems and processes to make the difficult trivial.
    Strong OOP skills
    Effective communication (oral & written), collaboration, and interpersonal skills.
    Result oriented approach.

Would be a plus:

    Experience with AWS (S3
    Experience with Java 18 and JDK 18.



